---
title: ' Week 2: First semester at KTH'
lang: en
layout: post
date: 2023-09-03
photos:
    directory: /media/sweden/week-02/
    items:
        - nature-by-the-lappis.jpeg: Park near my flat
        - campus-garden.jpeg: University garden
        - campus-at-night.jpeg: KTH campus at night
        - brick-building-everywhere.jpeg: Brick buildings everywhere
        - brick-building-everywhere-second.jpeg: Brick buildings everywhere (vol. 2)
        - gasworks.jpeg: Brick gasworks
        - from-djurgarden-city-view.jpeg: View of the city from Djurgården
        - lappis-kitchen.jpeg: Lappis - kitchen
        - lappis-kitchen-2.jpeg: Lappis - kitchen (vol. 2)
        - lappis-my-bed.jpeg: Lappis - my bed
        - lappis-bathroom.jpeg: Lappis - bathroom
---

The first semester at KTH started slowly. As part of the subject The Cybersecurity Engineer's Role in Society, we met with second-year students and had an introductory activity. I have completed the visual side of my website, now with a mobile version as well. I attended the local CTF (Capture The Flag) team RoyalRoppers kick off and even had the opportunity to enter my first DownUnderCTF competition straight away. Due to almost zero experience, I focused on simpler tasks and managed to solve three. At the same time, I started a project in the subject of Ethical Hacking, where my task is to break into systems and obtain so-called flags. There will be more than enough hacking this semester.

On the other hand, the subject Cybersecurity Overview looks rather uninteresting. For that reason, I asked for the option not to take the subject, although it is a compulsory subject. As a substitute, I would like to study Artificial Neural Networks and Deep Architectures.

During the week I honestly worked on my Swedish, apart from introducing myself I can now order in a restaurant or express what I like and don't like. As part of picking up discount groceries, I visited several new neighborhoods. The atmosphere of the city is significantly influenced by brick houses, which are very common here. And crossing on a red light is standard here. But watch out for bikes, they often move at a considerable speed here and won't just swerve.

At the weekend I visited the island Kungliga Djurgården (translation: Royal Park). Finally, I swam in the sea, which is about 300 meters from the house, and had the typical Swedish dish Köttbullar med potatis (translation: Meatballs with potatoes) - homemade, of course - for dinner. Overall a very successful week, looking forward to the next one.
