---
title: "Week 4: King's 50th year on the throne"
lang: en
layout: post
date: 2023-09-17
photos:
    directory: /media/sweden/week-04/
    items:
        - vyhledy-lod-1.jpg: View from the ship for the first time
        - vyhledy-lod-smer-lidingo.jpg: View from the ship towards Lidingö Island
        - vyhledy-lod-smer-djurgarden.jpg: View from the ship towards Djurgården
        - vyhledy-lod-cihlova-budova.jpg: Brick building again
        - vyhledy-lod-2.jpg: View from the ship
        - vyhledy-lod-gruna-lund.jpg: Gruna Lund - amusement park
        - vyhledy-lod-vasa-museum.jpg: Museum island - vasa museum
        - selfie-na-lodi.jpg: Selfie on the boat
        - pohled-od-dramaten.jpg: View of the sea from Dramaten
        - dramaten.jpg: Dramaten (Royal Dramatic Theatre)
        - vojenska-kapela.jpg: Military band before the march
        - armada-pochoduje.jpg: Swedish army in march
        - armada-ceka-na-prujezd-krale.jpg: Swedish army waiting for the king
        - kral-1.jpg: The king's passage
        - kral-2.jpg: The Queen waves to us
        - kralovsky-palac.jpg: The Royal Palace in Stockholm
        - koncert.jpg: Jubilee concert
        - kuba-slavi.jpg: I celebrate
        - prehlidka-stihacky.jpg: Air show
---

I spent the first half of the week trying to make progress on Ethical Hacking. Unfortunately, all my attempts to get the command line on the victim's computer (with the help of `msfvenom` were unsuccessful) until Wednesday when I thought to look at the firewall settings on my computer. Due to its strict settings, all packets (connection attempts) were being discarded here. At the same time, on Tuesday, the first Kontrollskriving (Swedish for partial test) of Artificial Intelligence and Deep Neural Networks took place. I was quite nervous about the test, but the results were above average.

On Saturday the weather was very nice and I run to Ropsten and then take a boat to the centre of Stockholm. After an hour's journey, during which we circumnavigated Djurgården, we docked in front of the Drammaten theatre. I wanted to go for another run, but after about 200 meters I ran into a police roadblock. I slowed down and continued walking, but after another half kilometre or so it was impossible to go any further. By asking one of the spectators, I learned that King Carl XVI Gustaf of Sweden was celebrating 50 years of reign. So I stayed and watched the positioning of the soldiers along the route where the carriage with the King and Queen would pass. For the two hours, I was waiting near military band that played almost non-stop hits from ABBA. The wait was worth it, the King came through with his entire cavalry and waved to us. I moved on to the Riksplan, where a jubilee concert was held, reviewing the important events of Carl XVI Gustaf's 50-year reign, accompanied by important singers or bands symbolizing the music scene in Sweden during the presented period.

On Sunday, Lida arrives and a week dedicated to exploring Stockholm begins. We toured the Gamla stan (old town) already on Sunday afternoon.
