---
title: 'Week 5: Grand tour Stockholm'
lang: en
layout: post
photos:
    directory: /media/sweden/week-05/
    items:
        - metro.jpg: Metro station, as if entering a tunnel
        - koncerthuset.jpg: Konserthuset (home of The Royal Stockholm Philharmonic Orchestra)
        - drottningholm-palace-1.jpg: Drottningholm Palace
        - drottningholm-palace-2.jpg: Drottningholm Palace
        - drottningholm-palace-3.jpg: Drottningholm Palace
        - drottningholm-palace-my.jpg: With Lída before Drottningholm Palace
        - kanelbulle.jpg: Kanelbulle
        - odengatan.jpg: View of Odengatan
        - autonomni-sekacka.jpg: Campus garden with autonomous mower
        - bicycle.jpg: My new bicycle
---

From Sunday to Friday, Lída visited me and I got out of my study world for a short time and finally got to see more of Stockholm. 

On Monday we started with an afternoon walk at Nackareservatet (the name of a park in Stockholm). On Tuesday we went to ABBA museum and also take a look into the other museum buildings, as most of the museums are located in one place in Stockholm - on the Djurgården island. During the afternoon, we walked around Kungsholmen and in the evening played board games with other students from Datasektionen (the name of the student association). Wednesday was mostly a study day, yet went on a tour of the longest gallery in the world - the Stockholm metro. A large number of stations, especially on the blue line, are originally decorated. We ended the evening with a bit of culture at the Stockholm Concert Hall (Swedish: Konserthuset) for a performance called "Schumann och Adams". On Thursday we went to see the Drottningholm palace and walked in the adjacent gardens. This time we ended the day with a culinary experience in the form of a local delicacy kanelbulle (photo below). On Friday morning Lída flies back to the Czech Republic and after the lecture I head off to Loppis (the Swedish name for flea market) to buy a bike.
